This video is about the most important
function in all R, the str function.
This function is really handy.
It's really useful.
I use it all the time.
And you can use it in all kinds of
situations
just to help you out, to look at R
objects.
So the idea behind the str function is, is
that it's suppose to compactly display the
internal structure of an R object, so str,
str, you can think of as being, meaning
structure.
So it's a very
simple diagnostic function.
It's very versatile.
And, the idea's that it's, you can use it
as, like, an alternative to summary.
You want to look at an object, and see,
and see you know, what is it.
And, what's in it.
You can use summary which will often be
very useful.
But str is another option.
It's partic, particularly well suited for
compactly
displaying large lists which may contain
nested lists.
And also
and, and its goal is to produce roughly
one line of output per basic object.
For example so if you give it a simple
object
like a vector, it'll give you one line of
output backup.
It will print it to the console.
And so the basic goal of str is to answer
the question, what's in this object?
I'm going to start up R here and I'm going
to
just give a little demonstration of how
the str function can work.
So here, you can apply str to itself and
see it's a function that takes an object.
It can take any R object.
So, so you can apply str to other
functions.
So let's say I want to know what the lm
function does.
So here, what it gives you it gives
you the, the function arguments for the lm
function.
So just, so here you can see it's a very
brief summary, you
know, take the first argument's a formula,
the second argument's data, et cetera.
I can look at maybe ls function and it
gives me, you know, what are the arguments
for the
LS function?
So if you want to look at some data,
though.
Let's say I'm going to generate some
normal random variables here, 100
of them, let's say mean two variant, and
standard deviation four.
Now one thing you can do is, is just do
summary on x,
and that will give you like a five number
summary plus the mean.
So you get the mean, median that is 25th,
75th percentiles and the min and the max.
So that gives you a rough sense of kind of
what the range is and how
it varies.
You can also call str on x and it will
give you a little bit more information.
So it'll give you a one line output.
It tells you that x is a numeric vector.
There are 100 elements.
And then, and it'll give you the first
five numbers in this vector.
So you can get a sense of kind of what the
data looked like.
So you can apply str to other types of
vectors.
So here I can create like a factor
variable.
So this
is the factor that has 40 levels and each
one
is repeated ten times so if I call str on
it.
And it'll give me a one line output again.
So here, it tells me it's a factor.
It's got 40 levels.
The level, the first four of them are
named 1, 2, 3 and 4.
So that's not particularly interesting.
And then here, I've said the first couple
of elements of
this factor are all in the, k-, all have
the label, one.
You can also call summary on a factor, and
you
can see that the output's a little bit
different.
And what this does is it, is it gives you
the number of elements in each of the 40
different levels.
So that's another piece of data that's not
quite as compact of output as str gives
you.
So you can use str for other types of data
types.
So here, I can, I can load like a data
frame.
Here's the airquality data set.
So, you know, if I look at the airquality
data
set, I can use the head function to look
at the
first six rows, or I can call str
to get a little some different output.
So here, it tells me it's a data frame.
It tells me that there's a 153
observations, so 153 rows in this data
frame
with, of six variables and then for each
variable, it, it gives me a little output.
So it tells me that the name of the first
variable is Ozone.
It's an integer.
Variable and, and here are the first could
of observations.
You can see there are some NAs there, so
that's useful to know.
The second variable is called Solar.R, and
it's also an integer, and you can see the,
the first couple of values.
So, the Str output here is very useful for
kind of just getting a quick examination
of data that you might have in R and what
the structure of different R objects is.
We can take this a little bit farther, so
for example, we could create a little
matrix here.
I'm going to put some random normals in
there.
That will be a 10 by 10 matrix.
I'll call str on m.
See, it will give me a little bit more
information.
So now it knows that it's a matrix.
It'll say that it's a, it's a
two-dimensional array.
That it's got 10 rows and 10 columns.
And here are the first couple of elements.
So that's going to be the first column
that you're seeing there.
So if I, so if I just print out the first
column here,
you'll see that it, that's what it's
giving me in the str output.
The last thing I'll do here
is create a little list by using the split
function and see how
str can look at the list and give a
compact summary of it.
So, I'm just going to take this air
quality
data frame And split it by the month.
So here I go to airquality, going to split
it by the month variable.
So now if I call str on S you'll see,
well there's a little bit of output that
flies by.
You see now this is a list, that contains
five different data
frames where each data frame corresponds
to the data for a given month.
So the months are, the data are only
collected over
five different months so that's why
there's only five elements.
So here you can see that the month, the
month five, which is May has
31 observations on six variables and
that's a
little bit of what the data looked like.
And you'll see for June,
here, there's 30 observations on six
variables again, same six variables, of
course.
And that's what the data look like there.
And then for July, the data are here.
And August and September.
So you can see the you can have a
representation
of this split list that's kind of, that's
not as compact
as it was before but it's about as compact
as you
can make it and str will provide a very
nice summary.
You can take a quick look at the data.
See if there's any problems.
See if there's missing values and
get a sense of what to do next.
So that's the str function.
I'll, I'll repeat again, I think it's the
most useful function
in all of R and you can use it in all
cases.
I encourage you to use it anytime you have
an R object and, you don't know what's
there.